in the last couple videos we talked
about the ideas of how first if you give
it features for movies you can use that
to learn parameters data for users and
second if you give it parameters for the
users you can use that to learn features
for the movies in this video we're going
to take those ideas and put them
together to come up with a collaborative
filtering algorithm so one of the things
we worked out earlier is that if you
have features for the movies then you
can solve this minimization problem to
find the parameters theta for your users
and then we also worked out that if you
are given the parameters theta you can
also use that to estimate the features X
and you can do that by solving this
minimization problem so one thing you
could do is actually go back and forth
you know maybe randomly initialize
parameters and then solve for theta it's
off X off with a that's all for X but it
turns out that there's a more efficient
algorithm that it doesn't need to go
back and forth between the X's and the
Thetas but that can solve for theta and
X simultaneously and here this what
we're going to do is basically take both
of these optimization objectives and put
them into the same objective so I'm
going to define a new optimization
objective J which is a cost function as
a function of my features X and a
function of my parameters theta it's
basically the two optimization
objectives that had on top but put
together so in order to explain this
first I want to point out that this term
over here this grant error term is the
same as this squared error term and the
summations look a little bit different
but let's see what the summations are
really doing the first summation is sum
over all users J and then sum over all
movies rated by that user right so this
is really something over all pairs IJ
that correspond to a movie that was
raised about you it's a sum over J says
for every user sum over all the movies
related by that
this summation down here just does
things in the opposite order this is for
every movie I sum over all the useless J
that have rated that movie and so you
know these summations both of these are
just summations over all pairs IJ for
which R of I J is equal to 1 is just
summing over you know all the user movie
pairs for which you have a rating and so
those two terms up there it's just
exactly this first term and I've just
written a summation here explicitly
where I'm just saying you know the sum
of all pairs IJ such that R IJ is equal
to 1 and so what we're going to do is
define a combined optimization objective
that we want to minimize in order to
solve simultaneously for X and theta and
then the other terms in the optimization
objective are this which is a
regularization in terms of theta and so
that came down here and the final piece
is this term which is my optimization
objective for the XS and that between
this and this optimization objective J
actually has an interesting property
that if you were to hold the X is
constant and just minimize with respect
to the Thetas then you'd be solving
exactly this problem whereas if you were
to do the opposite if you were to hold
the Thetas constant and minimize J only
with respect to the axis then it becomes
it closer to this because you know
either this term or this term is
constant if you're minimizing only
respective XS or your respective states
so here's an optimization objective that
puts together you know my cost functions
in terms of X and in terms of theta and
in order to come up with what's just one
optimization problem what we're going to
do is treat this cost function as a
function of my features X and of my user
per user parameters theta and just
minimize this whole thing as a function
of both the X's and a function of the
Thetas and really the only difference
between this and the are older algorithm
is that instead of going back and forth
you know previously we talked about
minimizing respect to theta then
minimizing respect to X were minimizing
respect to theta
minimizing respect to X and so on in
this new version instead of sequentially
going between the two sets of parameters
X and theta what we're going to do is
just minimize with respect to both sets
of parameters simultaneously finally one
last detail is that when we're learning
the features this way previously we've
have been using this convention that we
have a feature x0 equals 1 that
corresponds to an intercept term when
we're using this sort of formalism where
we're actually learning the features
we're actually going to do away with
this convention and so the features were
going to learn X will be in RN right
whereas previously we've had features X
in RN plus 1 including the intercept
term by getting rid of x0 we now have
just X in RN and so similarly because
the parameters theta is in the same
dimension we now also have theta in RN
because if there's no a 0 then there's
no need for a big parameter theta 0 as
well and the reason we do away with this
convention is because we're now learning
all the features right so that just
means that there's no need to hard-code
the feature there's always equal to one
because if you album really wants a
feature there's always equal to one they
can choose to learn one for itself so if
the average chooses it can set the
feature x1 equals to 1 and so
no need to hard to all the features over
one the algorithm now has effects
ability to just learn it by itself so
putting a being together here's our
collaborative filtering algorithm first
we're going to initialize X and theta to
small random values and this is a little
bit like neural network training where
there will also initializing all the
parameters of a neural network to small
random values Knicks were then going to
minimize the cost function using
gradient descent or one of the or one of
the advanced optimization algorithms so
if you take derivatives you find that
the gradient descent updates or like
this and so you know this term here is
the partial derivative of the cost
function I'm not gonna write that out
with respect to the feature value X I K
and similarly you know this term here is
also a partial derivative value of the
cost function with respect to the
parameter theta that were minimizing and
just as a reminder in this formulism we
no longer have this X 0 equals 1 and so
we have that X is in RN and theta is an
RN and in this new formulism we're
regularizing every one of our parameter
states and every one of our parameters
xn there's no longer there's no longer
this special case theta 0 which was
regular rise differently or which was
not regularized compared to at the
parameters theta 1 down to theta R
anything so there's no longer a theta 0
which is why these updates I did not
break up the special case for K equals 0
so we then use gradient descent to
minimize the cost function J with
respect to the features XM respective
parameters theta and finally given a
user if a user has some parameters theta
and if there's a movie with some sort of
learned features X we would then predict
that that movie will be given a star
rating by that user of theta transpose J
or just the photos in and then we're
saying that
if user J has not yet rated movie I than
what we do is predict that user J is
going to rate movie I according to this
of theta J transpose X I
so that's the collaborative filtering
algorithm and if you implement this
algorithm you actually get pretty decent
algorithm that was simultaneously learnt
good features for hopefully all the
movies as well as learn parameters for
all the users and hopefully give pretty
good predictions for how different users
will rate different movies that they
have not yet rated